
# TLFloat Community Guidelines (version 0.3)


## Purpose and positioning of these guidelines

These guidelines summarize the standards of practice that the
participating members of the project are expected to follow in order
to facilitate the promotion and operation of the project. These
guidelines are not a set of rules, and no penalties or other
consequences for violations are set forth in this guideline. Each
member may completely disregard these guidelines if he/she wishes.

More specifically, one of the purposes of establishing these
guidelines is to prevent conflicts among the members.

In addition, if a company is using this software for commercial
purposes, such as bundling it with their products for sale, and wishes
this software to be maintained continuously, they should provide
financial support to this project. The "burn out" of OSS developers is
a frequently discussed topic, but the real problem is that companies
that use OSS commercially do not financially support open source
projects. Development and maintenance of OSS cannot proceed unless
someone contributes resources, and the role of providing resources
free of charge should not be imposed on those who have been developing
OSS. Also, by the time each prominent OSS has achieved usable
performance by commercial standards, the developers or their employers
have had to bear the development resources. Even if a company does not
expect continuous maintenance of OSS, it should be natural that a
company that uses OSS commercially should bear a part of the
development resources up to that point.

Let me explain in simpler language. Imagine that you are offered a
free lunch somewhere. In such a case, a rather large number of people
would say, "Who is covering the cost of this lunch? Let me bear the
cost of what I eat." But when it comes to using OSS, the number of
such people is much smaller. And then there are those who sell what is
provided free of charge to others at a price. Certainly, as a free
lunch provider, we don't forbid that, but isn't that making too much
use of the generosity? And when we stop offering free lunch, people
say we have "burned out". Is it appropriate to call it a "burn out"
when the resources to provide free lunch have been exhausted? If those
who are making a profit give some of it back, then we can continue to
offer free lunches. I think everyone would be happier that way, don't
you? This is what I mean. Unlike receiving a free lunch that has
substance, downloading software may seem like less of an incentive to
pay a fee because you cannot see the face of the developer and the
software is only information and not substance. However, there are
real people involved in the development and maintenance of the
software, and real resources are committed for this purpose.

Some may argue that if that is the case, then we should just make the
license noncommercial. However, if we prohibit commercial use, even if
conditionally, adopting the software will require complex
deliberations within the company. As a result, commercial use will not
occur at all. It is undeniable that OSS and free software have become
popular because they can be used free of charge. But, if it says that
receiving a free service does not obligate you to do anything, is it
really appropriate to do absolutely nothing after receiving the free
service?

Therefore, I believe that social benefit would be maximized by
allowing nominally free commercial use, and by raising awareness that
it is only natural to return a portion of the profits to the project
as a matter of principle.


## The guidelines

### Striving to change perceptions about the commercial use of OSS and free software

* Project members strive to promote the awareness that commercial use
  of open source or free software for free without any contribution is
  free-riding and shameful.

* Project members strive to promote the awareness that if a company or
  other organization makes a profit from using open source or free
  software, it is natural for that organization to return a portion of
  the profit to the relevant projects.

* Project members strive to promote the awareness that it is natural
  for companies and other organizations to contribute to relevant
  projects if they use open source or free software, and that those
  organizations should give high recognition to their members who
  contribute to open source or free software projects on the job.


### Compliance with laws

* Each member shall comply with the laws of his/her own place of
  residence.
  * Each member should abide by laws even if the laws do not have
    penal provisions.


### Keeping calm and logical discussion

* Each member should refrain from posting a comment that is considered
  likely to cause strong emotions in those who read the comment.

* Each member should refrain from posting a comment that is not in
  line with the project's objectives.

* Each member of the project should not change the way he/she treat
  another member for any of the following reasons.
  * Discriminatory reasons (attributes that were determined at the
    time of the person's birth and cannot be changed)
  * Ideology or beliefs that are not relevant to the purpose of the
    project
  * Inequalities that existed in the past

* Each member of the project should treat another member equally at
  this point in time.
  * In principle, affirmative action is not supported in this project.
    Imposing disadvantages on members who do not support affirmative
    action is production of new inequities and should be avoided. If
    affirmative action must be taken, the disadvantage for it should
    be borne entirely by the supporters of affirmative action.


### To resolve the problem throughout the community

* Each member of the project should listen sincerely to the claims of
  other members that there have been violations of the above items and
  cooperates in resolving the problem.

* Project members should not leave it up to the project maintainers to
  resolve the problems.
